Benjamin Payne
Senior Developer

Grand Rapids, MI 49546
6166342033
me@benpayne.dev

Professional Summary

Highly skilled Senior Developer bringing 11 years of experience designing, developing and installing software programs, systems and applications. Proven project manager with background leading distributed teams in complex development projects.
Experienced in building web applications using Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, Laravel, Vue, jQuery, and Bootstrap.

Work History

November 2022 - Current

National Service Alliance - Louisville, KY
Senior Developer

Modernized legacy monolith — 10k+ lines changed, upgrading PHP 5.3 → 8.4.
Automated On Demand servicer onboarding, streamlining several hundred data entry points.
Developed an AI classifier to handle fuzzy customer responses to automated text messages.
Created mission-critical call routing software handling hundreds of calls/month using geolocation mapping.
Developed an AI-powered IVR for instant servicer and customer information retrieval.
Deployed software using GitHub actions CI/CD.
Managed software using GitHub version control.
Implemented consistent coding practices using PEP8 and PSR-12 style guides.

September 2022 - November 2022

AnswerNet - Willow Grove, PA
Senior Developer

Developed QA dashboard for internal staff to evaluate calls. This dashboard will handle 1000s of calls per day across over 20 clients.
Delivered new 'lite' solution for Third Party Verification clients who needed custom designed systems to meet their demands.
Evaluated and improved development work of other developers on team, working to provide training, constructive criticism and knowledge transfer.
Designed updates to existing software to meet changing customer demands.
Reviewed and incorporated latest technology innovations and development strategies to improve build speed, quality and end-user experience.
Deployed software using GitHub actions CI/CD.
Managed software using GitHub version control.
Implemented consistent coding practices using PEP8 and PSR-12 style guides.

January 2015 - September 2022

Northpointe Bank - Grand Rapids, MI
Senior Application Developer

Developed digital banking onboarding platforms where customers can open new checking or savings accounts. This system annually onboards millions of dollars in retail banking applications.
Developed Nintex RPA solutions that consume banking onboarding data and loads it into core banking systems. This automation freed up headcount and allowed business units to lower costs by several million dollars over 8 years.
Developed Retail Lending origination platforms, that originate millions of dollars in applications each month.
Developed B2B Correspondent Lending applications that facilitate purchases of millions of dollars in loans each month.
Developed loan boarding applications that board millions of dollars in originated loans into loan servicing systems.
Developed various sub systems, and backend applications that help facilitate marketing, accounting, capital markets, customer service, and loan servicing operations.
Analyzed and developed technical solutions to meet business requirements.
Developed standardized work processes, tools and methodologies to improve code quality and business profitability.
Managed software development and support using formal specifications, data flow diagrams and other design techniques.
Implemented consistent coding practices using industry standard style guides PEP8, and PSR-12.
Deployed software using TeamCity CI/CD.
Managed software using GitLab version control.

December 2009 - January 2015

USMC - Camp Lejeune, NC
Squad Leader

Lead squad of 13 Marines
Conducted live fire exercises with millions of dollars in equipment
Ensured maintenance and accountability of millions of dollars in equipment
Deployed with the 22nd Marine Expeditionary Unit to the Persian Gulf

Education

January 2022 - June 2022
Udacity Online
Nanodegree Data Science

Professional development completed in Data Science.
Focus on technical writing, ETL pipelines, recommendation engines, machine learning, and software development.
Used Python, Numpy, Scikit-Learn, Pandas, Flask, and Jupyter

January 2019 - May 2021
Davenport University Grand Rapids, MI
Bachelor of Science Computer Science

Focus on AI and Machine Learning
Dean's List Fall 2019, Winter 2019, Spring/Summer 2020
President's List Winter 2021

Skills

PHP

JavaScript

MySQL

Laravel

Vue

AI/ML